while governments around the world
continue to close their country's
borders travelers from outside the EU
being turned away from airports and
borders are freely imposed a 30-day ban
and Germany's Angela Merkel has just
said this let's have a look at their
quote not since world war ii has there
been such a challenge a to our country
that's so much relies on our universal
solidarity right let's go to take a look
round lots of pictures coming in from
all round Europe let's start in Belgium
this is Ghent doesn't matter what time
it is it's empty out on the streets the
country there is now in lockdown people
can only go outside really for
essentials shopping and exercise this is
France you can see the strong measures
here police actually checking the
paperwork of people who are moving
around in public that's after France
announced its nationwide lockdown
similar pictures this is Athens Greece
normally very busy but all retail stores
are shut and you can see the lockers
coming down there and the Venice canals
famous for being polluted but since
Italy has stopped tourists coming in the
water has become a lot lot clearer okay
let's stay in Italy it's still the worst
affected country in Europe now has more
than 35,000 confirmed cases and nearly
3,000 deaths today it's reported 475 new
deaths which is the highest one-day toll
of any nation
here's Seema Kentucky who's in Rome four
thousand people have been fined for not
abiding by these restrictions that were
put in place over a week ago preventing
people from moving around the country
freely without good reasons people have
to fill out a form if they do move
saying why they are moving they need
good reasons whether they're medical
reasons going to work or maybe going to
get some groceries and we've had BBC
colleagues in previous days being
stopped by the police and police asking
to see that documentation and then
interrogating them about what their
purpose is here wide
covering the story etc so a real sense
of police wanting people to stay in well
the United Kingdom has stepped up its
restrictions schools in the UK and will
close by this Friday to prevent the
further spread of the virus here's the
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson we
also need to keep the NHS going and to
treat the rising number of cases so we
need health workers who are also parents
to continue to go to work and we need
other critical workers with children to
keep doing their jobs - from police
officers who are keeping our safe to the
supermarket delivery drivers social care
workers who look after the elderly and
who are so vital we therefore need
schools to make provision for the
children of these key workers who would
otherwise be forced to stay home and
they will also need to look after the
most vulnerable children thousands of
people who were stranded in Austria
after Hungary closed its border have
begun to cross into Hungary the Budapest
government opened a humanitarian
corridor in a one-off move Nick Thorpe
is there at the border these have been
mostly Romanians and Bulgarians stranded
for their day a day and a half there was
a window of opportunity during the night
the Hungarians said Bulgarians first
then Romanians could drive across that
border for four or five hours or so that
was not enough to solve this situation
and finally after many more hours of
frustration for all these people stuck
on the far side of the border just soon
after noon local time the Hungarian
authorities finally allowed the
Romanians and Bulgarians to pass but I
understand there's still an element of
chaos on the far side on the Austrian
side because Serbs Ukrainians and other
nationalities are still being turned
back France has been on lockdown since
Tuesday more than 260 people have died
and there are over 7,600
confirmed cases let's see what the
president Emmanuel macron has been
saying he tweeted to the health care
staff specifically you are not counting
your hours in the face of this
unprecedented
crisis we know what we owe you and we
will do whatever it takes to help you
well let's go to Hugh Scofield now who's
in France for us Hugh good to see you we
saw pictures a short time ago of police
out on the streets checking people's
papers as they work around these sounds
like very strict measures are they
working oh yeah they're working yeah I
mean they're checking people for the
document which they have to have if you
have to have if you go out if you leave
your home you need to bring with you a
piece of paper which states the reason
for your leaving your home and there are
five permitted reasons broadly work
medical emergency family emergency or
brief excursions just to take air and
walk the dog or have a job somewhere
that those are all permitted but
anything else is not permitted and the
police have been today enforcing it
yesterday wouldn't this all came in I
think it was more you know it's all
there was that there was a large degree
of leniency shall we say but on day two
or the first full day today
they have been enforcing it and we told
her about 5,000 fines have been imposed
on people for not having good reasons to
go out and then the general picture here
is that it's it's being obeyed I mean
I'm speaking to you from the provinces
unlike a lot of people I'm out I've got
out of Paris for the foreseeable and
future but it the same situation applies
in for small towns around where I am and
now in central France as it does in
Paris everywhere is deserted there are
there is there is there is movement
because people are have to go shopping
and so on but it's very very limited and
people are it seems to me for now anyway
happily going along with what the
government says is absolutely essential
okay thanks very much for that you
that's Hugh Schofield innocence a bear
right let's take a look at some more
pictures coming into the newsroom lots
of them as you can imagine so let's
start
well that selfies extraordinary busy
pictures this is people disinfecting the
market it's in Guatemala City
disinfecting stalls hoping to try and
attract shoppers back I suppose now
let's go to the border between Peru
Bolivia Peru close its borders early
this week Bolivia has just announced it
will do
the same proven to have been stranded
there essentially as you can see trying
to get home
more disinfectant here this is Indonesia
where officers are disinfecting areas
popular with tourists resorts on the
island of course are shutting down and
then let's take a look finally US South
Korean troops sanitizing areas around
day.you that the epicenter of the
outbreak in South Korea as you might
remember and let's stay in that part of
the world staying in South Korea because
more than 80 people have died in the
country there are over eight thousand
four hundred cases Laura Becker has this
update for us from salt over the last
week we've seen a steady decline in the
number of cases being confirmed here in
South Korea where we've had the biggest
outbreak outside China here in Asia but
when it comes to the last few hours
certainly we're hearing and news of new
clusters emerging not just in the
hotspot of Daegu the worst-affected
region in this country but in the
outskirts of Seoul and that's what's
causing concern I was Laura Becker there
we're gonna stay in this part of the
world look at what the World Health
Organization are saying and they are
calling for urgent aggressive actions to
combat Kovach 19 as cases soar in
Southeast Asia region now cases on
subcontinent are still below 500 but
there are fears a spike could well
overwhelm health care systems let's take
a look now Malaysia Sri Lanka the
Philippines they're among the nation's
imposing strict border controls his
Johnson head in Bangkok although the
first case was recorded here in Thailand
on the 13th of January the numbers crept
up very very slowly now some people said
in some countries like Myanmar and
Indonesia Laos for example they just
weren't doing any testing there was a
fear that there were infections there
that won't be recorded but here in
Thailand they've actually been quite
efficient they recorded numbers they've
been testing and the numbers crept up
that's all changed in the last few days
people were beginning to think the
perhaps warmer weather was a reason that
the virus was not spreading here
anything like as quickly
as it has done in Europe and the United
States but the numbers are creeping up
fast to African out where some 30
countries have reported cases and South
Africa has nearly 120 cases the
government has introduced a travel ban
and school closures which come into
effect today the head of the World
Health Organization has urged
governments throughout Africa to prepare
for the worst
Andrew Harding is in Johannesburg in a
poor Township on the edge of
Johannesburg
a rising sense of vulnerability today we
don't have the toilet 40 to 45 people
using that one tape so we must get the
cure so if the virus comes here what do
you think will happen they've got a key
every word this is a world of shared
toilets of water delivered by the bucket
and no room to self isolate we are going
to struggle because yeah it's my
neighbor if I catch it is going to catch
it everyone they're going to catch it so
we are in a very big danger South Africa
is busy preparing its defences there are
already several drive-in testing centers
so it's just present with a bit of a
cough and slightly sore throats suddenly
this week Africa as a whole is starting
to clamp down closing borders schools
banning large gatherings hoping to learn
from Asia and Europe's experiences this
entire continent may have been given a
little extra time to prepare but it's
still acutely vulnerable to the virus
the immune systems of millions of people
are already compromised by malnutrition
and by HIV and many health systems are
already precarious at best if this
epidemic grows and starts impacting and
establishing itself in any one of our
neighbors in the rest of southern Africa
and indeed in central and eastern
western Africa we will likely see a more
difficult situation to
in the meantime what to do about the
daily crush these buses the only option
for most commuters across Africa will
this make you change and not go on the
bus anymore if I had any alternative
transport I would and so a worried
continent braces itself resolute but
exposed Andrew Harding BBC News
Johannesburg well there's plenty more on
this truly global story on our website
do give it a visit